---
permalink: /about/
title: "About"
---

Early in 1980s, two fabulous men Charles Robert Darwin and Gregor Johann Mendel, have set up the foundation of modern biology. They did extraordinary work in this field which is still influencing the biology research nowadays. Interesting to have a think, I find that Charles is qualitative while Mendel is quantitative, one is wet lab from nature, the other is dry lab from culture, one is in population level, the other is in molecular lever. So I established this web page and name it as “bioLogY”. This a complete word “biology” but was separated into three parts. Prefix “bio” means the general biology, the middle part “log” means the mathematics symbol for big data in exponential level, the suffix “Y” means definitive rules in science. X is unknown, and could not define gender in XY sex-determination system while Y could, so Y means something that can be known. "bioLogY" delivers a message that biology questions which are combined logically by works from intuitive wet lab and rational dry lab nowadays can be studied and understood by human themselves in a spatial-temporal inteligence through transfering qualitative "ATCG" to quantitative "1010" across time and space.

I am Healix, a Chinese in Germany now. I am insterested in platforming biology science and computational biology. Dry and wet methods application, trials and evaluation is an important part for computational biology. Specifically, It would invovle in different aspects about one big computing platform from which biology researches will benefit a lot. First of all, big data will be considered to be integrated, where interactive web applications and SQL databases are ought to be deployed. Algorithm development based on mathematics is also important for special analysis in answering biology questions, some customised R packages will come from this purpose. Applications of deep learning technology or artificial intelligence in biology field can improve our perspectives in an unimaginable way. Analysis on multiple omics will become more and more common with NGS in whole genome level being acceptable as gold metric, including genomics, transcriptomics, proteomics, metabolomics, structural omics, epigenetics, and microgenomics. Explicit scale deep into single cell or even nano materials and macro scale on population evaluation are demonstrating us an unprecedented vision regarding to biology genesis. Novel technologies (e.g. gene editing and in-vitro ogranoids) are available at present and will be developed as very potentially powerful tools. Embryo development process and individual aging process are quasi-natural events for intrinsic and extrinsic investigations. 

Tribute to science!
